# Java Final Project

Instructions for downloading:
Click on the green code button to download the zip,
Create a folder in Eclipse and drag the files into it

Our goal was to make an app that was similar to Akinator. The Akinator game on the internet uses yes - or - no type of questions to guess a particular character that the user should keep in mind, such as a TV character and such. We replicated that game in Java, but for all the people in our class. In order to maximize our learning from this project, we decided to use objects. We could'be taken a slighly easier approach, but since we wanted to utilize object and keep our learning at a maximim, we didn't take that approach. Here, we first decided to create an object class called FinalProjectObject, and from there we created an ArrayList of FinalProjectObject Objects in another class called MainFrame, which we named finalp. Each Person Object consists of an eye, hair, height, and glasses string parameter. The Person class also included a getter and a setter. Then, we asked our entire Java class to fill out our survey to fill up a spreadsheet with everyone in the classroom for all the characteristics that we needed. Then, we created separate text files with all the physical characteristics of each person on a spreadsheet. Next, we made each text file into an ArrayList using the importFile method. We then added all of these characteristics to make up each FinalProjectObject object, and then we added that to finalp. Then, we implemented a series of while loops and methods to randomly choose a question category (Eye question, Hair question, etc.). If the method chose the eye category for example, then it would present the user with an eye question to which the user would have to answer yes or no. After the user answered, the program would remove everyone in the ArrayList that didn’t apply to the user’s answer. This process would continue until the program narrows down the ArrayList to 1 person, which it would then display their name. However, sometimes we had an error because a lot of people in our class, like around 6, had very similr characteristics. So, we hard-coded tiebreaker questions. Also, we generaized the infor that the class gave us so that the app is more usable and less confusing. Additionally, we also made a new addition to our program where the user can be the Akinator and guess a person from our class.
The biggest new learning that we took away from this project was effectively learning how to convert our code into the GUI Swing software. Here, we downloaded the Eclipse Windowbuilder software off of the internet, after watching a few videos on the internet and were able to use the design part of it to create our interface. Despite this, due to our slight time-wasting throughout the weeks, we needed to effectively convert all of our code to GUI in the last 4 or 5 days of the project. However, because we each put 1 to 2 hours everyday after school to get on calls and work together on it, we were able to finish it. An example of our GUI was the yes button software. Here, the ActionListener method is used in order to account for the action of clicking the yes button. Then, the program removes all people not adhering to the question from the ArrayList, and asks the next random question if finalp’s size is not 1.We also learned how to better work as team members in a project because we failed to do so throughout the project. We learned that we need to better space out our time in order for the project to do better.
